we've all heard the annoying sound of
mosquito owner here and we will stop at
nothing to make it go away
now while the sound may be maddening to
us perhaps it's music to a mosquitos
ears mosquitoes nervous system has
almost as many sensory auditory cells as
we do but why would they have so many in
such a small body and why would they
need to be so sensitive to sounds
the answer is love
[Music]
as humans we do a lot to attract each
other some are conscious we put on
makeup but make sure we smell nice and
some are unconscious you may
unconsciously point your body or even
sit closer to someone you like these are
courtship behaviors and a lot of animals
have them and mosquitoes are no
different so Haley's been spending her
summer bravely listening to mosquitoes
and what she observed may surprise you
so we want to investigate how the
mosquitoes make their song so Haley we
want to record their wing beads how
we're gonna do that we need to tether
them and the way to do that is to first
anesthetize them in a fridge or a bed of
ice and then I transfer them to this
petri dish of ice just to get them even
more anesthetized
next I take an insect pin and what I do
is put a tiny little dab of superglue on
this pen I want to make sure that I get
it on his thorax above his wings so that
one he is suspended his wings are still
free to move so here's one down it's
really hard to catch male mosquitoes in
the wild because females are the only
mosquitoes that are attracted to humans
they feed on human blood and now we can
try to get some recordings from them so
this is the stand that I use to hold
them I like to place it right over the
microphone so that I can get a recording
of the buzzing that you hear that sound
is generated by how fast they're beating
their wings this is a male the male's
have very bushy antennae they look kind
of feathery and they are also much
smaller so he's he's flying around 600
hers yep let's try another mosquito as
can we try a female mosquitoes
[Music]
so this is a much lower frequency yeah
wholly different than the other guy
so is it just because they're two
different mosquitoes or is it because
they're male and female it's because
they're male and female let's find out
when let's just verify that bring in
another female and see if she sounds
like mosquito a or mosquito being yeah
and again she has much lower than the
mouth yeah she sounds different
and she spot him she really is yeah
that's the females were actually at a
much lower pitch they were around 400
Hertz gotcha and all of the females were
around that too I noticed that they were
much larger than the males so they
didn't have to flap their wings as fast
to stay in free flight they have larger
wings they're flapping slower and you
notice that all the females have the
same frequency roughly and all the males
of the same fruits that's kind of
interesting so that must mean something
let's see what happens we put the male
and the female together so when I put
them into the same hearing range I
noticed that they were kind of changing
their tones it was kind of more dull
almost and then when I put it back in my
spectrogram to see their interaction
they were meeting at the same tone okay
pause the males and females are singing
you do it meaning that they adjust their
wings to be able to produce a common
tone you have the male singing up here
at G you have the female singing down
here at D and when they get together
you're saying that they they change the
the frequency of their wings such that
they come together yeah exactly sort of
singer do it
they're communicating with each other to
let each other know that they've
basically found a potential mate so in
other words the female tends to choose a
male that best sings her duet and
studies have found that if she's
pregnant she does even bother so if we
can understand the mosquito mating
behavior we may be able to disrupt it in
the wild and prevent diseases like
malaria but for now the next time you
hear a mosquito buzzing just pause and
remember she may be in love and she may
be singing her song and she may be
looking for the perfect match
[Music]